DRAG_DROP_FIX.md, before:

# Chess Drag-and-Drop Fix

## Issue
The chess pieces on the board were not responding to drag-and-drop interactions. Users could see the chessboard but couldn't make moves.

## Root Cause
1. **Invalid Import**: The code was importing `Square` type from `chess.js` library, but this library doesn't export that type, causing a module error.
2. **Missing Return Value**: The `makeMove` function didn't return a boolean to indicate success/failure, so the ChessBoard component couldn't validate moves properly.
3. **Library Incompatibility**: The `react-chessboard` library had TypeScript compatibility issues with the current setup.

## Solution

### 1. Custom Square Type Definition
Defined the `Square` type locally instead of importing from `chess.js`:
```typescript
type Square = 'a8' | 'b8' | 'c8' | ... | 'a1' | 'b1' | 'c1' | 'd1' | 'e1' | 'f1' | 'g1' | 'h1';
```

### 2. Custom Chessboard Implementation
Replaced `react-chessboard` library with a custom implementation that includes:
- **Drag-and-Drop Support**: Full drag-and-drop functionality using native HTML5 APIs
- **Click-to-Move**: Alternative input method - click a piece then click destination
- **Visual Feedback**: 
  - Selected square highlighting
  - Dragging opacity effects
  - Unicode chess pieces with proper styling
- **Board Flip**: Toggle between white/black perspective

### 3. Move Validation
Updated `makeMove` function in `useChessGame.ts`:
- Returns `boolean` to indicate success/failure
- Validates moves using `chess.js` engine
- Undoes invalid moves if connection is lost
- Provides user feedback for invalid moves

## Files Modified

1. **frontend/src/components/game/ChessBoard.tsx**
   - Removed `react-chessboard` dependency
   - Implemented custom board with drag-and-drop
   - Added click-to-move functionality
   - Defined local Square type

2. **frontend/src/hooks/useChessGame.ts**
   - Changed `makeMove` return type to `boolean`
   - Added move validation logic
   - Improved connection error handling

## Features

### Drag-and-Drop
- Click and hold a piece
- Drag to destination square
- Release to make the move
- Invalid moves are rejected and piece returns to origin

### Click-to-Move
- Click a piece to select it (shows blue border)
- Click destination square to move
- Click elsewhere to deselect

### Visual Design
- Classic brown/tan chessboard colors
- Unicode chess pieces with text shadows for clarity
- Square coordinates (a-h, 1-8) on edges
- Smooth opacity effects during drag
- Border highlight for selected pieces

## Testing
The fix has been committed and both backend and frontend dev servers are running:
- Backend: Java Spring Boot on debug port
- Frontend: Vite dev server on port 5173

## Commit
```
commit 6f86b11
Fix chess drag-and-drop functionality
- Remove invalid Square import from chess.js (not exported)
- Define Square type locally as union of all valid chess squares
- Implement custom chessboard with drag-and-drop support
- Add click-to-move functionality as alternative input method
- Fix makeMove to return boolean for move validation
- Remove unused variables (board, success)
- Support both drag-and-drop and click interactions
```

Commit message:

Add documentation for board size increase

DRAG_DROP_FIX.md, after:

# Chess Drag-and-Drop and Sizing Fix

## Issue
The chess pieces on the board were not responding to drag-and-drop interactions. Users could see the chessboard but couldn't make moves.

**Update 1**: Chess piece and board sizing was also incorrect, with pieces appearing too large or misaligned within squares.

**Update 2**: The chessboard was too small at 600px, making it difficult to play comfortably.
1. **Invalid Import**: The code was importing `Square` type from `chess.js` library, but this library doesn't export that type, causing a module error.
2. **Missing Return Value**: The `makeMove` function didn't return a boolean to indicate success/failure, so the ChessBoard component couldn't validate moves properly.
3. **Library Incompatibility**: The `react-chessboard` library had TypeScript compatibility issues with the current setup.

## Solution

### 1. Custom Square Type Definition
Defined the `Square` type locally instead of importing from `chess.js`:
```typescript
type Square = 'a8' | 'b8' | 'c8' | ... | 'a1' | 'b1' | 'c1' | 'd1' | 'e1' | 'f1' | 'g1' | 'h1';
```

### 2. Custom Chessboard Implementation
Replaced `react-chessboard` library with a custom implementation that includes:
- **Drag-and-Drop Support**: Full drag-and-drop functionality using native HTML5 APIs
- **Click-to-Move**: Alternative input method - click a piece then click destination
- **Visual Feedback**: 
  - Selected square highlighting
  - Dragging opacity effects
  - Unicode chess pieces with proper styling
- **Board Flip**: Toggle between white/black perspective

### 3. Move Validation
Updated `makeMove` function in `useChessGame.ts`:
- Returns `boolean` to indicate success/failure
- Validates moves using `chess.js` engine
- Undoes invalid moves if connection is lost
- Provides user feedback for invalid moves

## Files Modified

1. **frontend/src/components/game/ChessBoard.tsx**
   - Removed `react-chessboard` dependency
   - Implemented custom board with drag-and-drop
   - Added click-to-move functionality
   - Defined local Square type

2. **frontend/src/hooks/useChessGame.ts**
   - Changed `makeMove` return type to `boolean`
   - Added move validation logic
   - Improved connection error handling

## Features

### Drag-and-Drop
- Click and hold a piece
- Drag to destination square
- Release to make the move
- Invalid moves are rejected and piece returns to origin

### Click-to-Move
- Click a piece to select it (shows blue border)
- Click destination square to move
- Click elsewhere to deselect

### Visual Design
- Classic brown/tan chessboard colors
- Unicode chess pieces with text shadows for clarity
- Square coordinates (a-h, 1-8) on edges
- Smooth opacity effects during drag
- Border highlight for selected pieces

## Testing
The fix has been committed and both backend and frontend dev servers are running:
- Backend: Java Spring Boot on debug port
- Frontend: Vite dev server on port 5173

## Commit
```
commit 6f86b11
Fix chess drag-and-drop functionality
- Remove invalid Square import from chess.js (not exported)
- Define Square type locally as union of all valid chess squares
- Implement custom chessboard with drag-and-drop support
- Add click-to-move functionality as alternative input method
- Fix makeMove to return boolean for move validation
- Remove unused variables (board, success)
- Support both drag-and-drop and click interactions
```
